meet the george clooney of the koala
world
and he's being used to well turn the
girls on if they react positively
they're ready to mate not a bad job
being introduced to lovelies all day
let the girls all know that he's here
but he's not always welcome
now she's really quite aggressive there
she's just she's right
yeah she's letting him know that he
doesn't he's not welcome here
all right so we might move on to another
enclosure knowing that we've got no
activity in here whatsoever
yeah dear that's a bad knockback
i think you need a thick skin to be a
teaser
all right so we've got jenna coming to
us she's very excited that there's a boy
in her midst
she's on here all right you can see that
very typical hiccuping ear flicking
she's not holding back she's almost
willing him to come over nice one mate
she's hot and you've pulled now
this is where things get complicated
jenna is actually going to be
artificially inseminated
because the male she had the hots for is
not a good genetic match
but rocky is
his semen is about to be collected using
an artificial vagina
he'll think he's mating with a female to
allswell as far as he's concerned
okay we're going to have a go at
collecting some semen from
the boy this is the female that we're
going to use as a teaser
and often running beautiful okay he's
excited
the team are highly skilled in this very
delicate maneuver
i know what you're thinking though why
not just let nature take its course
well they want to be sure that jenna
gets pregnant and they
also have some sperm left over to use in
experiments
that's it and that's that's the uh
sample we'll have a look under the
microscope anyway and see how we go okay
well done big fella well done all right
we'll go and get him back to bed
okay the semen looks fine so steve's
planning to go ahead
with the operation we're doing an
artificial insemination today but
we're also doing a lot more research
looking at techniques for the cry
preservation of the sperm so that we can
freeze it throw it out and then
artificially inseminate it
fresh sperm only has a shelf life of
about 72 hours
the long-term aim is to build up a
genetically diverse sperm bank
only possible if the specimens can be
frozen it's turning out to be a real
problem we've done quite a bit of work
on koalas and wombats
and we can freeze it okay and we can
throw it okay but we can't keep it alive
after we've thought it out
so for now they can only use fresh jenna
arrives at the clinic
now steve makes this look simple but
it's taken him a long time to get this
good it probably is around about 10
years before you
you're so you're efficient enough that
you're doing it reliably we'd like
to use this technique for other species
as well but you know
some of those species unfortunately we
don't have 10 years time will tell if
it's worked for jenna
but even if she's not pregnant she's
done her bit to help the research
one more step along the road to saving
her wild cousins from extinction
and i i just can't imagine australia
without its koala
[Music]
foreign